 To establish command, a firefighter should: 
 A. don PPE appropriate for the incident scene.
 B. make initial assignments to available resources.
 C. call for assistance from higher ranking personnel.
 D. remove all nonessential personnel from the incident scene.
 ANSWER: B

 If communications have been correctly established, the incoming IC should be able to handle communications such as change in Command Post location and: 
 A. notification.
 B. preincident reports.
 C. periodic progress reports.
 D. general weather conditions.
 ANSWER: C

 As part of size-up, what information should a firefighter consider while en route to an incident? 
 A. Victim survivability based on conditions
 B. The cost of calling in additional resources
 C. How much of the structure (percentage) is on fire
 D. Weather conditions and their potential effects on fire behavior
 ANSWER: D

 After gathering information about the scene from a 360 size-up, the first-arriving firefighter must: 
 A. transfer Command.
 B. request additional resources.
 C. transmit a condition or arrival report.
 D. establish the initial isolation perimeter.
 ANSWER: C

 After conducting a risk-benefit analysis, you should select an offensive strategy when: 
 A. occupants are not savable.
 B. lives or property are savable.
 C. no threat to occupant life exists.
 D. conditions indicate an extreme threat to property.
 ANSWER: B

 Who has the responsibility of requesting additional resources during the initial response to an incident? 
 A. Law enforcement liaison
 B. Senior firefighter on the scene
 C. Telecommunications dispatcher
 D. Firefighter who initially assumes Command
 ANSWER: D

 Which statement about transferring Command is MOST accurate? 
 A. Radio communication of a transfer of Command is preferred.
 B. Command should never be transferred to anyone who is not on the scene.
 C. Command can only be transferred face-to-face.
 D. The initial IC can only transfer Command to a higher ranking fire officer.
 ANSWER: B

 After command has been transferred: 
 A. crew members are likely to be reassigned.
 B. the initial IC is no longer needed on the scene.
 C. the new IC will conduct his or her own size-up.
 D. the new IC will assign new duties to the initial IC.
 ANSWER: D

 The most important variable when choosing an appropriate hoseline is: 
 A. flow rate.
 B. stream reach.
 C. ease of deployment.
 D. potential fire spread.
 ANSWER: A

 In what situation would you include a wye appliance as part of a hose lay? 
 A. When the hydrant does not have a large diameter connection
 B. When a smaller line is needed but a larger line is still in service
 C. When one attack line has been laid, but two are needed to implement a plan
 D. When more than one attachment using a non-gated wye needs to be made available to the same hydrant
 ANSWER: C

 Which type of nozzle is generally the most useful for an interior fire attack? 
 A. Solid stream nozzle
 B. Smooth bore nozzle
 C. Master stream nozzle
 D. Fog nozzle (adjustable nozzle)
 ANSWER: D

 Interior fire attack crews advancing hoselines must carry tools and equipment needed to open interior doors, make an emergency exit, or: 
 A. conduct air monitoring.
 B. detect hazardous materials.
 C. check concealed spaces for victims.
 D. check concealed spaces for fire extension.
 ANSWER: D

 Unit leaders must be capable of communicating within the department's IMS system, which includes providing status reports and updates to personnel in charge of the incident and: 
 A. determining initial crew assignments.
 B. broadcasting incident termination orders.
 C. relaying orders from incident leaders to unit personnel.
 D. establishing a time interval for all crews to provide progress reports.
 ANSWER: C

 During an attack, if interior conditions worsen or are worse than could be observed from outside the structure, contact the IC and: 
 A. signal the need for evacuation.
 B. terminate search and rescue operations.
 C. communicate a change in operational assignment.
 D. coordinate water application with ventilation crews.
 ANSWER: D

 When dealing with an electrical emergency involving a downed power line,: 
 A. use water to extinguish small electrical fires.
 B. walk or crawl away from the ground gradient area.
 C. establish an exclusion zone equal to 3 times the distance between power poles in all directions away from the line.
 D. establish an exclusion zone equal to 1 ½ times the distance between power poles in all directions away from the line.
 ANSWER: D

 Your role at an emergency involving an underground confined space is to: 
 A. conduct limited rescue operations.
 B. document your observations for the postincident report.
 C. keep the fire contained until more qualified personnel arrive.
 D. maintain situational awareness as you proceed into the space.
 ANSWER: C

 Why is it important that incident reports are accurate and complete? 
 A. They are legal documents
 B. They are used to recruit new hires
 C. They are used as instructional examples
 D. They assign blame to those at fault for errors
 ANSWER: A

 The information gathered on reports is used for: 
 A. evaluating personnel.
 B. determining trends in fire cause.
 C. confirming facts in criminal cases.
 D. adjusting jurisdictional boundaries.
 ANSWER: B

 The National Fire Incident Reporting System (NFIRS): 
 A. is only used in Canada.
 B. was developed by the NFPA.
 C. outlines the information needed to complete incident reports.
 D. outlines the necessary procedures for termination and recovery
 ANSWER: C


 20. What determines the exact information that should be included in an incident report? (926)
 A. The IC
 B. Local protocol
 C. Emergency Response Guidebook (ERG)
 D. National Fire Incident Reporting System (NFIRS)

