 Size-up is an ongoing evaluation of what has happened, what is happening, what is likely to happen and: 
 A. how the incident compares to similar incidents.
 B. whether incident costs incurred will be too high.
 C. what resources will be needed to resolve the situation.
 D. what other types of calls may stretch resources too thin.
 ANSWER: C

 What is the most critical area of the scene that includes the site of the actual emergency? 
 A. Hotzone
 B. Cold zone
 C. Warm zone
 D. Command center
 ANSWER: A

 In technical rescue situations, a Fire Fighter II's job will be: 
 A. to plan operational procedures.
 B. to serve on the rapid intervention crew.
 C. primarily to assist the technical rescuers.
 D. to perform the same skills as technical rescuers.
 ANSWER: C

 The primary hazard for rescuers at a __ incident is that they are working in the same environment as victims without a safety net.
 A. rope rescue
 B. trench rescue
 C. water and ice rescue
 D. confined-space rescue
 ANSWER: A

 Which structural collapse pattern is the least likely to contain voids in which live victims may be found? 
 A. A-frame
 B. Lean-to
 C. Pancake
 D. Cantilever
 ANSWER: C

 What is required for personnel working within 10 feet (3 m) of the water's edge at a water or ice rescue incident? 
 A. Wet suit
 B. Dock bumpers
 C. Two-way radio
 D. Personal flotation device (PFD)
 ANSWER: D

 When responding to any situation involving electricity, always: 
 A. evacuate all nearby occupants.
 B. initiate mutual aid agreements.
 C. call for the electric company to respond.
 D. begin extrication operations immediately.
 ANSWER: C

 Which power source has the advantage of being available at the scene and tools that are lightweight? 
 A. Electric
 B. Propane
 C. Hydraulic
 D. Pneumatic
 ANSWER: A

 Which stabilization tool consists of wooden or plastic blocks or wedges in a variety of lengths and widths? 
 A. Shoring materials
 B. Cribbing materials
 C. Cable and block systems
 D. Tensioned buttress systems
 ANSWER: B

 Which power saw is versatile, has a short, straight blade that moves in and out, and can use a variety of blades for cutting different materials? 
 A. Circular saw
 B. Whizzer saw
 C. Reciprocating saw
 D. Rotary rescue saw
 ANSWER: C

 Which tools are air-pressurized devices that give rescuers the ability to lift or displace objects that cannot be lifted with other rescue equipment? 
 A. Hydraulic jacks
 B. Cribbing materials
 C. Pneumatic lifting devices
 D. Tensioned buttress system
 ANSWER: C

 Which pulling tool is typically mounted on the front, rear, or side of a vehicle and is used in conjunction with chains or cables? 
 A. Winch
 B. Tripod
 C. Buttress system
 D. Extension rams
 ANSWER: A

 The common term for the area of the vehicle that the driver faces during normal operation is the: 
 A. rear.
 B. front.
 C. interior.
 D. driver's side.
 ANSWER: B

 Which type of vehicle frame is used on heavy-duty vehicles that pull or carry loads? 
 A. Unibody
 B. Multi-frame
 C. Space frame
 D. Full or rigid frame
 ANSWER: D

 What is the primary hazard at vehicle extrication incidents? 
 A. Fire
 B. Traffic
 C. Hazardous materials
 D. Environmental conditions
 ANSWER: B

 Where should apparatus be parked at a vehicle extrication incident? 
 A. Wherever there is adequate space
 B. As far off the shoulder as is possible
 C. On the opposite side of the roadway as the incident
 D. So that the apparatus forms a protective barrier between the scene and oncoming traffic
 ANSWER: D

 What is used to prevent horizontal movement of a vehicle that has all of its wheels on the ground? 
 A. Jacks
 B. Wheel chocks
 C. High-pressure cushion
 D. Tensioned buttress systems
 ANSWER: B

 Which passenger safety system deploys air bags from just above the top of the door frame during a side-impact collision? 
 A. Head Protection Systems (HPS)
 B. Side-Impact Protection Systems (SIPS)
 C. Extendable Roll Over Protection Systems (ROPS)
 D. Supplemental Passenger Restraint Systems (SPRS)
 ANSWER: A

 For which type of glass will the lower corner break easily when struck with a sharp, pointed object such as a spring-loaded center punch? 
 A. Safety glass
 B. Tempered glass
 C. Composite glass
 D. Doubly laminated glass
 ANSWER: B

 Removing the doors and roof from a unibody construction vehicle: 
 A. should only be done if vehicle is upright.
 B. has minimal impact on structural integrity.
 C. should only be done if vehicle is on its side.
 D. can seriously compromise its structural integrity.
 ANSWER: D

