Which of the following is not a factor typically considered to contribute to structural collapse?
Renovations
Geographic location
Building contents
Age of the structure

Which type of construction is one of the least likely to collapse due to the weight-bearing capacity of the large-dimension wood members?
Type I
Type II
Type III
Type IV

Which of the following regarding structural collapse is true?
Steeples, chimneys, and false facades usually do not collapse unless the entire structure collapses
Type I construction is typically the most vulnerable to complete structural collapse
Structural collapses typically happen during or immediately after a fire incident
Structural collapses due to earthquakes generally involve smaller buildings

Which of the following is true of structural collapse in Type II construction?
Type II construction consists of unprotected steel or noncombustible supports, such as I-beams.
When exposed to temperatures above 1000 F, unprotected steel will expand and twist, pushing out walls.
Type II, ordinary construction, exterior load-bearing walls are made of concrete, brick, or masonry, while interior loads are carried by wood, masonry, or unprotected steel. Masonry construction walls can collapse in one piece or crumble.
Walls in Type II construction may collapse inward or outward. Lightweight trusses and engineered floor systems can fail in minutes, often within firefighters' average response time (10 minutes).
Type II construction high-ride buildings are not likely to collapse, making the primary concern the hazard of flying glass from windows or curtain walls.

Which is the primary danger with balloon frame construction?
Lightweight trusses can fail rapidly and quickly, often within firefighters' average response time (10 minutes)
Wall cavities between the studs are open from the ground floor to the attic, allowing a fire in the basement or on the first floor to extend to the attic through this channel
Steel beams can expand and twist when exposed to heat, pushing outside walls outward.
Exterior load-bearing masonry walls can collapse in one piece or crumble, and debris can travel some distance.

After extinguishing a fire in a building containing truss construction and it is determined that the truss system has been has been affected or weakened by fire firefighters should:
use defensive overhauling procedures
always work in teams of two or more in the affected area
use fog bore streams to minimize the amount of water added to the structure
immediately use vertical ventilation to lower the ambient temperature in the structure

Which of the following is not true regarding building condition and structural collapse?
Buildings that are old, have not been maintained properly, or have been abandoned for some time all pose a greater risk of collapse
As a structure ages, the wood and other materials used in its construction can deteriorate and weaken
Squatters may alter the interior of a structure including altering load bearing supports
Older buildings typically have larger, "full timber" support structures, allowing firefighters more time before a collapse

In which of the 4 stages of fire is structural collapse most likely?
Incipient
Growth
Fully involved
Decay

Contents in a structure can contribute to structural collapse by:
Slowing growth to the fully involved state by distributing the fuel load throughout the structure
Causing collapse more rapidly due to added dead weight
Creating toxic byproducts of combustion
Roof-mounted HVAC units may draw heat and flame through an entire structure

How far out should a collapse zone be established for this building?
45 feet
90 feet
135 feet
180 feet

Indicators of structural instability and collapse include all of the following except:
Movement in the roof, walls, or floors.
Large amounts of water runoff from the interior of the structure.
Prolonged fire exposure to the structural members.
Roof sagging, pulling away from parapet walls, or feeling spongy under foot.

Collapse zones should be established when:
Fire has been limited to a single room and contents
Overhaul finds hidden pockets of fire
A defensive strategy has been adopted
A second alarm is struck
